needs  are aligned  with  climate  
change,  such  as renewable  
energy  installations,  climate -
smart  agriculture  projects, and 
resilient  transportation  systems. 
Climate  Finance  can therefore  
help  Nigeria enhance  its energy  
security,  improve  agricultural  
productivity,  and promote  sustainable  urbanisation .
• Job Creation : Nigeria  needs  to 
develop  alternate sources  of 
revenue  and economic  growth . 
Climate  finance  investments  
create  new  employment  
opportunities  across  various  
sectors  including renewable  
energy,  sustainable  agriculture  
and ecosystem  restoration .  
Nigeria has a large  “green”  jobs 
potential,  creating  further  
opportunity  for entrepreneurship  
and skills  development,  
particularly  in rural areas  where  
climate -related  activities  are 
often  concentrated . By targeting  
green  growth,  rather than  a 
narrowed  carbonisation  lens,  
climate  finance  can help  Nigeria