climate -related  activities  are 
often  concentrated . By targeting  
green  growth,  rather than  a 
narrowed  carbonisation  lens,  
climate  finance  can help  Nigeria 
diversify  its economy  and create  
jobs.• Energy  Access  & Affordability : 
Nigeria needs  to continue  to 
develop  its energy  systems  to 
widen  and deepen energy  access . 
Climate  finance  facilitates  the 
expansion  of access  to clean  and 
affordable  energy  sources,  in 
particular solar  power . Improved  
access  to energy  stimulates  
economic  productivity,  which  in 
turn powers  small  and medium -
sized  enterprises  (SMEs)  and 
enhances  the quality  of life for 
communities,  particularly  in rural 
and underserved areas .
• Climate  Resilience  & Risk  
Reduction: Investing  in climate  
resilience  measures, such  as 
flood  defences,  drought -resistant  
crops  and early  warning  systems  
helps  Nigeria  adapt  to the 
impacts  of climate  change  and